Improve ML how-to guides (#3602)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/how-tos/create-custom-training-scripts.md

platformarea: ["ml"]
level: "Advanced"
date: "2024-08-29"
updated: "2024-10-20" # When the tutorial was last entirely checked
cost: "0"
---

> You can create your own custom Python training script that trains ML models to your specifications using PyTorch, Tensorflow, TFLite, ONNX, or any other Machine Learning framework.

Author: ```suggestion
You can create custom Python training scripts that train ML models to your specifications using PyTorch, Tensorflow, TFLite, ONNX, or any other Machine Learning framework.
```

> Once you upload your training script to the [Viam Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry?type=Training+Script), you can use it to build ML models in the Viam Cloud based on your datasets.

Author: ```suggestion
Once you upload a training script to the [Viam Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry?type=Training+Script), you can use it to build ML models in the Viam Cloud based on your datasets.
```

{{% expand "A dataset with data you can train an ML model on. Click to see instructions." %}}

For image data, you can follow the instructions to [Create a dataset and label data](/how-tos/train-deploy-ml/#create-a-dataset-and-label-data) to create a dataset.

> For other data you can use the [Data Client API](/appendix/apis/data-client/) to get data stored in the Viam Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
For other data you can use the [Data Client API](/appendix/apis/data-client/) from within the training script to get data stored in the Viam Cloud.
```

{{% tablestep %}}
**2. Add `setup.py` code**

> Add the following code to `setup.py` and dd additional required packages on line 11:

Author: ```suggestion
Add the following code to `setup.py` and add additional required packages on line 11:
```

The `parse_args()` function in the template parses your arguments.

{{% /expand %}}

> {{% expand "Click for more information on parsing annotations from dataset file" %}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{% expand "Click for more information on parsing annotations from dataset file." %}}
```

{{% tablestep %}}
**1. Package the training script as a <file>tar.gz</file> source distribution**

> To run your training script on datasets in Viam, compress your project folder into a tar.gz file:

Author: ```suggestion
To upload your training script to Viam, compress your project folder into a tar.gz file:
```

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**2. Upload a training script**

> To upload a custom training script to the registry, use the `viam training-script upload` command.

Author: ```suggestion
To upload your custom training script to the registry, use the `viam training-script upload` command.
```

## Next steps

To use your new model with machines, you must deploy it with the [ML model service](/services/ml/deploy/).

> Then you can use another service, such as the vision service, to apply the deployed model to any live data, such as camera feeds.

Author: ```suggestion
Then you can use another service, such as the vision service, to apply the deployed model to camera feeds.
```
